Welcome back, guys and girls, to this lecture.
So in the last lecture, we learned what is infrastructure as code and what are some of its benefits.
So in this lecture, let's take a closer look at one of the infrastructure escort services in a W s
a W.
S cloud formation.
So what is cloud formation?
So you guys and girls already know the couple basic things.
It is infrastructure escort service for us in cloud formation, you code your infrastructure in a file
which you call template, and when you run this template, it spins up a diverse infrastructure.
So you can use this template to quickly replicate your infrastructure across multiple accounts and across
multiple environments such as dev, stage prod, disaster recovery, etc. This template file is written
in JSON or YAML, and one thing to keep in mind is this cloud formation is free of charge.
You only pay for the provision infrastructure that the template is creating for you, and there is a
way for you to calculate the cost of the provisional infrastructure that's getting created by the template.
And we are going to cover this in a separate lecture.
So let's take a look at a sample template.
Don't worry, we're going to go over all these variables and all this stuff.
But for now, let's just take a look at it to get a very basic understanding.
So this is a template to spin up an S3 bucket.
So this type under resources, this a W.S. Colon Colon S3 Colon Colon bucket tells cloud formation to
speed up a S3 bucket and then it prints out the name of the bucket.
So when you run this template, it is going to create a bucket.
So think about it.
You don't have to go to console and manually create a bucket.
And once you have this template and you run this template in your 100 plus accounts and it's going to
create S3 bucket on those hundred accounts.
So you are probably thinking, Raj, it's a bucket.
Maybe I'll just go in the console and create the bucket.
What's the big deal?
Well, the thing is, in real world projects, things are more complicated, right?
So what if in the bucket you have to give access control to public grid?
Maybe you are using that bucket as a website.
So you have to have an index document, error document, you have to have a special deletion policy,
you have to output the website URL so things can get quite complicated.
So once you code all this in the template, that's it.
You just did it once and then you run it multiple times in multiple accounts and it's going to replicate
the same infrastructure over and over again.
And there is no risk of human error of not selecting some option or something from the console.
Again, don't worry too much about the fields, the output.
This resource says we are going to learn about all of these in separate lectures.
But I just wanted to give you guys and gals a little test how a template looks like.
So there are a couple of times which are going to come up a lot, so let's go over them.
So the first is template.
You guys and gals already know this one.
It is the blueprint for resources written in JSON or YAML.
Next one is stack.
Once you submit a template, it creates a stack and stacks can be created, updated and deleted.
So if your template is spinning up multiple resources in one go, let's say it's spinning up A-Z to
it's some S3 bucket and if some with the template it creates a stack and when you delete the stack it
can go and delete all the provision resources that the template spun up and the next one is said.
So you can go and change a stack.
Let's say you already spun up ac2 using a template which created a stack, and now you want to go attach
some different security group or you want to include the C two in a auto scaling group or something
so you can go and update the stack.
However, before submitting the changes a chance, it will show you the summary of proposed changes.
Also, it's going to show you the impact of the change on the running resources.
So this one is pretty handy.
We of course have separate lectures on channel sets.
Okay.
And before I end this lecture again, think of all the benefits that infrastructure as code brings to
the table.
So, of course, cloud formation inherits all those benefits.
All right, guys and girls, that is the lecture.
I see you guys and girls in the next lecture.
By.